UPGRADING.md, before:

# Upgrading

Because there are many breaking changes an upgrade is not that easy. There are many edge cases this guide does not cover. We accept PRs to improve this guide.

## From v8 to v9

- add a `json` column `generated_conversions` to the `media` table (take a look at the default migration for the exact definition). If you are using Media Library Pro, you should copy the values you now have in the `generated_conversions` key of the `custom_properties` column to `generated_conversions`
- rename `conversion_file_namer` key in the `media-library` config to `file_namer`. This will support both the conversions and responsive images from now on. More info [in our docs](https://spatie.be/docs/laravel-medialibrary/v9/advanced-usage/naming-generated-files).
- in several releases of v8 config options were added. We recommend going over your config file in `config/media-library.php` and add any options that are present in the default config file that ships with this package.

## From v7 to v8

- internally the media library has been restructured and nearly all namespaces have changed. Class names remained the same. In your application code hunt to any usages of classes that start with `Spatie\MediaLibrary`. Take a look in the source code of medialibrary what the new namespace of the class is and use that. 
- rename `config/medialibrary.php` to `config/media-library.php`
- update in `config/media-library.php` the `media_model` to `Spatie\MediaLibrary\MediaCollections\Models\Media::class`

- all medialibrary commands have been renamed from `medialibrary:xxx` to `media-library:xxx`. Make sure to update all media library commands in your console kernel.
- the `Spatie\MediaLibrary\HasMedia\HasMediaTrait` has been renamed to `Spatie\MediaLibrary\InteractsWithMedia`. Make sure to update this in all models that use media.
- Add a `conversions_disk` field to the `media` table ( varchar 255 nullable; you'll find the definition in the migrations file of the package) and for each row copy the value of `disk` to `conversions_disk`.
- Add a `uuid` field to the `media` table ( char 36 nullable) and fill each row with a unique value, preferably a `uuid`

You can use this snippet (in e.g. tinker) to fill the `uuid` field:

```php
use Spatie\MediaLibrary\MediaCollections\Models\Media;
Media::cursor()->each(
   fn (Media $media) => $media->update(['uuid' => Str::uuid()])
);
```

- Url generation has been vastly simplified. You should set the `url_generator` in the `media-library` config file to `Spatie\MediaLibrary\Support\UrlGenerator\DefaultUrlGenerator::class`. It will be able to handle most disks.
- remove the `s3.domain` key from the `media-library` config file
- spatie/pdf-to-image is now a suggestion dependency. Make sure to install it, if you want to create thumbnails for PDFs or SVGs
- `registerMediaConversions` and `registerMediaCollections` should now use the  `void` return type.
- if the `path_generator` key in the `media-library` config file was set to `null`, change the value to `Spatie\MediaLibrary\Support\PathGenerator\DefaultPathGenerator::class`
- if the `url_generator` key in the `media-library` config file was set to `null`, change the value to `Spatie\MediaLibrary\Support\UrlGenerator\DefaultUrlGenerator::class`
- the `rawUrlEncodeFilename` method on `BaseUrlGenerator` has been removed. Remove all calls in your own code to this method.
- `getConversionFile` on `Conversion` now accepts a `Media` instance instead of a `string`. In normal circumstance you wouldn't have used this function directly.

## 7.3.0

- Before `hasGeneratedConversion` will work, the custom properties 
of every media item will have to be re-written in the database, or all conversions must be regenerated.
This won't break any existing code, but in order to use the new feature, you will need to do a manual update of your media items.

## 7.1.0

- The `Filesystem` interface is removed, and the `DefaultFilesystem` implementation is renamed to `Filesystem`.
If you want your own filesystem implementation, you should extend the `Filesystem` class.
- The method `Filesytem::renameFile(Media $media, string $oldFileName)` was renamed to `Filesystem::syncFileNames(Media $media)`. If you're using your own implementation of `Filesystem`, please update the method signature.
- The `default_filesystem` config key has been changed to `disk_name`.
- The `custom_url_generator_class` and `custom_path_generator_class` config keys have been changed to `url_generator` and `path_generator`. (commit ba46d8008d26542c9a5ef0e39f779de801cd4f8f)

## From v6 to v7

- add the `responsive_images` column in the media table: `$table->json('responsive_images');`
- rename the `use Spatie\MediaLibrary\HasMedia\Interfaces\HasMedia;` interface to `use Spatie\MediaLibrary\HasMedia\HasMedia;`
- rename the `use Spatie\MediaLibrary\HasMedia\Interfaces\HasMediaConversions;` interface to `use Spatie\MediaLibrary\HasMedia\HasMedia;` as well (the distinction was [removed](https://github.com/spatie/laravel-medialibrary/commit/48f371a7b10cc82bbee5b781ab8784acc5ad0fc3#diff-f12df6f7f30b5ee54d9ccc6e56e8f93e)).
- all converted files should now start with the name of the original file. One way to achieve this is to navigate to your storage/media folder and run `find -type d -name "conversions" -exec rm -rf {} \;` (bash) to remove all existing converted files and then run `php artisan medialibrary:regenerate` to automatically recreate them with the proper file names. 
- `Spatie\MediaLibrary\Media` has been moved to `Spatie\MediaLibrary\Models\Media`. Update the namespace import of `Media` accross your app
- The method definitions of `Spatie\MediaLibrary\Filesystem\Filesystem::add` and `Spatie\MediaLibrary\Filesystem\Filesystem::copyToMediaLibrary` are changed, they now use nullable string typehints for `$targetFileName` and `$type`.

## From v5 to v6

- the signature of `registerMediaConversions` has been changed.

Change every instance of

  ```php
  public function registerMediaConversions()
  ```
to

 ```php
 public function registerMediaConversions(Media $media = null)
 ```

 - change the `defaultFilesystem` key in the config file to `default_filesystem`
 - add the `image_optimizers` key from the default config file to your config file.
 - be aware that the media library will now optimize all conversions by default. If you do not want this tack on `nonOptimized` to all your media conversions.
 - `toMediaLibrary` has been removed. Use `toMediaCollection` instead.
 - `toMediaLibraryOnCloudDisk` has been removed. Use `toMediaCollectionOnCloudDisk` instead.


## From v4 to v5
- rename `config/laravel-medialibrary` to `config/medialibrary.php`. Some keys have been added or renamed. Please compare your config file againt the one provided by this package
- all calls to `toCollection` and `toCollectionOnDisk` and `toMediaLibraryOnDisk` should be renamed to `toMediaLibrary`
- media conversions are now handled by `spatie/image`. Convert all manipulations on your conversion to manipulations supported by `spatie/image`.
- add a `mime_type` column to the `media` table, manually populate the column with the right values.
- calls to `getNestedCustomProperty`, `setNestedCustomProperty`, `forgetNestedCustomProperty` and `hasNestedCustomProperty` should be replaced by their non-nested counterparts.
- All exceptions have been renamed. If you were catching media library specific exception please look up the new name in /src/Exceptions.
- be aware`getMedia` and related functions now return only the media from the `default` collection
- `image_generators` have now been added to the config file.


## From v3 to v4
- All exceptions have been renamed. If you were catching media library specific exception please look up the new name in /src/Exceptions.
- Glide has been upgraded from 0.3 in 1.0. Glide renamed some operations in their 1.0 release, most notably the `crop` and `fit` ones. If you were using those in your conversions refer the Glide documentation how they should be changed.

## From v2 to v3
You can upgrade from v2 to v3 by performing these renames in your model that has media.

- `Spatie\MediaLibrary\HasMediaTrait` has been renamed to `Spatie\MediaLibrary\HasMedia\HasMediaTrait`.
- `Spatie\MediaLibrary\HasMedia` has been renamed to `Spatie\MediaLibrary\HasMedia\Interfaces\HasMediaConversions`
- `Spatie\MediaLibrary\HasMediaWithoutConversions` has been renamed to `Spatie\MediaLibrary\HasMedia\Interfaces\HasMedia`

In the config file you should rename the `filesystem`-option to `default_filesystem`.

In the db the `temp`-column must be removed. Add these columns:
- disk (varchar, 255)
- custom_properties (text)
You should set the value of disk column in all rows to the name the default_filesystem specified in the config file.

Note that this behaviour has changed:
- when calling `getMedia()` without providing a collection name all media will be returned (whereas previously only media
from the default collection would be returned)
- calling `hasMedia()` without a collection name returns true if any given collection contains files (wheres previously
it would only return try if files were present in the default collection)
- the `addMedia`-function has been replaced by a fluent interface.

## From v1 to v2
Because v2 is a complete rewrite a simple upgrade path is not available.
If you want to upgrade completely remove the v1 package and follow install instructions of v2.

Commit message:

Add info about setting the default value (#2322)
I just upgraded to v9 and added the `media.generated_conversions` field. The first time I updated an existing `Media` instance I got a JSON-validation constraint error because the newly-added field didn't have a value (it defaulted to an empty string). This PR adds info about and instructions for setting the default value to `[]` to help people avoid running into the same problem

UPGRADING.md, after:

# Upgrading

Because there are many breaking changes an upgrade is not that easy. There are many edge cases this guide does not cover. We accept PRs to improve this guide.

## From v8 to v9

- add a `json` column `generated_conversions` to the `media` table (take a look at the default migration for the exact definition). If you are using Media Library Pro, you should copy the values you now have in the `generated_conversions` key of the `custom_properties` column to `generated_conversions`
  - If you have existing records in the `media` table, you will need to update the value of the `generated_conversions` column to be `[]` to avoid JSON-validation constraint errors
  - You can do this either by adding `->default('[]')` to the column definition in the migration or by using this snippet (e.g. in Tinker):

```php
use Spatie\MediaLibrary\MediaCollections\Models\Media;
Media::whereNull('generated_conversions')->orWhere('generated_conversions', '')->cursor()->each(
   fn (Media $media) => $media->update(['generated_conversions' => []])
);
```

- rename `conversion_file_namer` key in the `media-library` config to `file_namer`. This will support both the conversions and responsive images from now on. More info [in our docs](https://spatie.be/docs/laravel-medialibrary/v9/advanced-usage/naming-generated-files).
- in several releases of v8 config options were added. We recommend going over your config file in `config/media-library.php` and add any options that are present in the default config file that ships with this package.

## From v7 to v8

- internally the media library has been restructured and nearly all namespaces have changed. Class names remained the same. In your application code hunt to any usages of classes that start with `Spatie\MediaLibrary`. Take a look in the source code of medialibrary what the new namespace of the class is and use that. 
- rename `config/medialibrary.php` to `config/media-library.php`
- update in `config/media-library.php` the `media_model` to `Spatie\MediaLibrary\MediaCollections\Models\Media::class`

- all medialibrary commands have been renamed from `medialibrary:xxx` to `media-library:xxx`. Make sure to update all media library commands in your console kernel.
- the `Spatie\MediaLibrary\HasMedia\HasMediaTrait` has been renamed to `Spatie\MediaLibrary\InteractsWithMedia`. Make sure to update this in all models that use media.
- Add a `conversions_disk` field to the `media` table ( varchar 255 nullable; you'll find the definition in the migrations file of the package) and for each row copy the value of `disk` to `conversions_disk`.
- Add a `uuid` field to the `media` table ( char 36 nullable) and fill each row with a unique value, preferably a `uuid`

You can use this snippet (in e.g. tinker) to fill the `uuid` field:

```php
use Spatie\MediaLibrary\MediaCollections\Models\Media;
Media::cursor()->each(
   fn (Media $media) => $media->update(['uuid' => Str::uuid()])
);
```

- Url generation has been vastly simplified. You should set the `url_generator` in the `media-library` config file to `Spatie\MediaLibrary\Support\UrlGenerator\DefaultUrlGenerator::class`. It will be able to handle most disks.
- remove the `s3.domain` key from the `media-library` config file
- spatie/pdf-to-image is now a suggestion dependency. Make sure to install it, if you want to create thumbnails for PDFs or SVGs
- `registerMediaConversions` and `registerMediaCollections` should now use the  `void` return type.
- if the `path_generator` key in the `media-library` config file was set to `null`, change the value to `Spatie\MediaLibrary\Support\PathGenerator\DefaultPathGenerator::class`
- if the `url_generator` key in the `media-library` config file was set to `null`, change the value to `Spatie\MediaLibrary\Support\UrlGenerator\DefaultUrlGenerator::class`
- the `rawUrlEncodeFilename` method on `BaseUrlGenerator` has been removed. Remove all calls in your own code to this method.
- `getConversionFile` on `Conversion` now accepts a `Media` instance instead of a `string`. In normal circumstance you wouldn't have used this function directly.

## 7.3.0

- Before `hasGeneratedConversion` will work, the custom properties 
of every media item will have to be re-written in the database, or all conversions must be regenerated.
This won't break any existing code, but in order to use the new feature, you will need to do a manual update of your media items.

## 7.1.0

- The `Filesystem` interface is removed, and the `DefaultFilesystem` implementation is renamed to `Filesystem`.
If you want your own filesystem implementation, you should extend the `Filesystem` class.
- The method `Filesytem::renameFile(Media $media, string $oldFileName)` was renamed to `Filesystem::syncFileNames(Media $media)`. If you're using your own implementation of `Filesystem`, please update the method signature.
- The `default_filesystem` config key has been changed to `disk_name`.
- The `custom_url_generator_class` and `custom_path_generator_class` config keys have been changed to `url_generator` and `path_generator`. (commit ba46d8008d26542c9a5ef0e39f779de801cd4f8f)

## From v6 to v7

- add the `responsive_images` column in the media table: `$table->json('responsive_images');`
- rename the `use Spatie\MediaLibrary\HasMedia\Interfaces\HasMedia;` interface to `use Spatie\MediaLibrary\HasMedia\HasMedia;`
- rename the `use Spatie\MediaLibrary\HasMedia\Interfaces\HasMediaConversions;` interface to `use Spatie\MediaLibrary\HasMedia\HasMedia;` as well (the distinction was [removed](https://github.com/spatie/laravel-medialibrary/commit/48f371a7b10cc82bbee5b781ab8784acc5ad0fc3#diff-f12df6f7f30b5ee54d9ccc6e56e8f93e)).
- all converted files should now start with the name of the original file. One way to achieve this is to navigate to your storage/media folder and run `find -type d -name "conversions" -exec rm -rf {} \;` (bash) to remove all existing converted files and then run `php artisan medialibrary:regenerate` to automatically recreate them with the proper file names. 
- `Spatie\MediaLibrary\Media` has been moved to `Spatie\MediaLibrary\Models\Media`. Update the namespace import of `Media` accross your app
- The method definitions of `Spatie\MediaLibrary\Filesystem\Filesystem::add` and `Spatie\MediaLibrary\Filesystem\Filesystem::copyToMediaLibrary` are changed, they now use nullable string typehints for `$targetFileName` and `$type`.

## From v5 to v6

- the signature of `registerMediaConversions` has been changed.

Change every instance of

  ```php
  public function registerMediaConversions()
  ```
to

 ```php
 public function registerMediaConversions(Media $media = null)
 ```

 - change the `defaultFilesystem` key in the config file to `default_filesystem`
 - add the `image_optimizers` key from the default config file to your config file.
 - be aware that the media library will now optimize all conversions by default. If you do not want this tack on `nonOptimized` to all your media conversions.
 - `toMediaLibrary` has been removed. Use `toMediaCollection` instead.
 - `toMediaLibraryOnCloudDisk` has been removed. Use `toMediaCollectionOnCloudDisk` instead.


## From v4 to v5
- rename `config/laravel-medialibrary` to `config/medialibrary.php`. Some keys have been added or renamed. Please compare your config file againt the one provided by this package
- all calls to `toCollection` and `toCollectionOnDisk` and `toMediaLibraryOnDisk` should be renamed to `toMediaLibrary`
- media conversions are now handled by `spatie/image`. Convert all manipulations on your conversion to manipulations supported by `spatie/image`.
- add a `mime_type` column to the `media` table, manually populate the column with the right values.
- calls to `getNestedCustomProperty`, `setNestedCustomProperty`, `forgetNestedCustomProperty` and `hasNestedCustomProperty` should be replaced by their non-nested counterparts.
- All exceptions have been renamed. If you were catching media library specific exception please look up the new name in /src/Exceptions.
- be aware`getMedia` and related functions now return only the media from the `default` collection
- `image_generators` have now been added to the config file.


## From v3 to v4
- All exceptions have been renamed. If you were catching media library specific exception please look up the new name in /src/Exceptions.
- Glide has been upgraded from 0.3 in 1.0. Glide renamed some operations in their 1.0 release, most notably the `crop` and `fit` ones. If you were using those in your conversions refer the Glide documentation how they should be changed.

## From v2 to v3
You can upgrade from v2 to v3 by performing these renames in your model that has media.

- `Spatie\MediaLibrary\HasMediaTrait` has been renamed to `Spatie\MediaLibrary\HasMedia\HasMediaTrait`.
- `Spatie\MediaLibrary\HasMedia` has been renamed to `Spatie\MediaLibrary\HasMedia\Interfaces\HasMediaConversions`
- `Spatie\MediaLibrary\HasMediaWithoutConversions` has been renamed to `Spatie\MediaLibrary\HasMedia\Interfaces\HasMedia`

In the config file you should rename the `filesystem`-option to `default_filesystem`.

In the db the `temp`-column must be removed. Add these columns:
- disk (varchar, 255)
- custom_properties (text)
You should set the value of disk column in all rows to the name the default_filesystem specified in the config file.

Note that this behaviour has changed:
- when calling `getMedia()` without providing a collection name all media will be returned (whereas previously only media
from the default collection would be returned)
- calling `hasMedia()` without a collection name returns true if any given collection contains files (wheres previously
it would only return try if files were present in the default collection)
- the `addMedia`-function has been replaced by a fluent interface.

## From v1 to v2
Because v2 is a complete rewrite a simple upgrade path is not available.
If you want to upgrade completely remove the v1 package and follow install instructions of v2.
